---
name: KEL DOR
img src: https://starwars5ecentral.blob.core.windows.net/site-images/species/species_keldor.png
bodyImg: https://starwars5ecentral.blob.core.windows.net/site-images/species/species_keldor.png
img: https://starwars5ecentral.blob.core.windows.net/site-images/species/species_keldor.png
source: phb
speedColor: ''
alignment: >-
  Kel dors' structured nature causes them to tend toward lawful balanced, though there are exceptions.
size: >-
  Kel dor typically stand around 6 feet tall and weigh about 160 lbs. Regardless of your position in that range, your size is Medium.
age: >-
  Kel dor reach adulthood in their late teens and live less than a century.
languageColor: >-
  You can speak, read, and write Galactic Basic and Kel Dor.
skinColor: Orange, red
hairColor: None
eyeColor: Black, silver
distinctions: Rebreathers to survive in oxygen environments
homeworld: Dorin
language: Kel Dor
height:
  base: >-
    4'6"
  mod: >-
    +2d12"
weight:
  base: 80 lb.
  mod: x(2d4) lb. 
cSize: medium
mechanics:
  - type: asi
    amount: 1
    ability: dex
---
### BIOLOGY AND APPEARANCE
Due to Dorin having a unique atmosphere composed
of helium and a gas unique to their world, the kel dors
are forced to wear an antiox breath mask and
protective goggles whenever in atmospheres of a
different composition. Without their protective goggles,
kel dors were considered effectively blind when away
from Dorin. They were also able to survive in the
vacuum of space for a short time, though it was
unknown exactly how long they could withstand it.
The kel dors also have heightened reflexes, a result
of the extrasensory organs in their heads. They are
typically quick and wise.

### SOCIETY AND CULTURE
Kel dors are noted for their simple approach to justice,
and they typically see moral issues in black and white.
On the one hand, the kel dor are noted for their
hospitality; they would never turn away a stranger in
need. Yet, kel dors are not averse to taking the law into
their own hands, and have no compunctions about
putting to death a thief who was merely stealing to
feed himself.
Kel dor Force-sensitives are often trained as Baran
Do Sages, who have an honored place in kel dor
culture. They often serve as advisers to rich and
powerful kel dor families. Wars and disasters have
been averted simply by the insight of a Baran Do Sage.

### NAMES
Kel dor names are base on sound generated by Dorin's
unique atmosphere. Surnames are based on ancient
family trades.
Male Names. Bil, I'zers, Nullo, Taciss, Zaln
Female Names. Arri'ku, Bhi're, Chu, So'ro, Thirza
Surnames. Andugai, Borak, Haimnech, Vitchess
